A book of spells written by the legendary wizard [[Mordenkainen]]. This book was owned by [[Fistandia]] and was bequeathed to [[Candlekeep]] in appreciation for the many years she spent in its hallowed halls. The book is a treatise on extradimensional spaces similar to those created by the [[Mordenkainen's magnificent mansion]] spell. This information alone would make it worthy of note, but [[Fistandia]]'s additions in the margins are even more interesting. In arcane shorthand, she details how she created a permanent [[Mordenkainen's magnificent mansion]] spell and records the command word to open the mansion's doorway.

Many researchers perused this book over the years it spent in [[Candlekeep]], but knowledge of the command word was useless without the location of the gateway to the mansion - until a chance discovery by the sage [[Matreous]], an expert in the application and removal of curses. Upon arriving at [[Candlekeep]] to further his expertise, [[Matreous]] cast [[detect magic]], as was his habit. THe spell revealed a gateway in the very study room he had been assigned!

Forgetting about his earlier purpose, [[Matreous]] asked for any knowledge of who might have created such a gateway. Research by the [[Avowed]] revealed that [[Fistandia]] requested this room each time she visited the keep. They also turned up mysterious reports that she rarely left the room for weeks at a time. Rumors said that she was not even seen to eat or sleep during her visits. She would, however, go missing for hours at a time. [[Matreous]] concluded that she must have gone through the gateway during those absences. By searching through the books [[Fistandia]] donated to the library, he found the command word to open the portal and stepped inside.